
To do:

1. Picture how this looks today
2. Picture for first rollout
3. Picture of the phase3  rollout
4. mention that MEDical News article

OBJECTIVES:

Create an infrastracture for ALL health care participants that enables secure, robust, reliable health info exchange.
It should be independant from the internal record format of the participants.
It should use common , standard communication protocols that will accomodate ALL necessary exchanges.
It should allow secure and reliable access to the clients' information which resides in the HRV.

Justification for the project:

Market Forces that will govern the evolution of the whole process.
The first step is to build rudimentary infrastructure.
Similarity with the banks money transfer networks (Bankwire, SWift, Telex, etc)
People have not been forced to keep their money in the banks. The convenience and different benefits are forcing people to the banks. After they deposit their money in the bank the people demand certain services with it.
In HR record keeping. 
There will be several HRV (Health Record Vaults) where people will keep their records.
What will force them to do it?
Ability to earn something by allowing anonimous access for researches, statistics, pharma sientists.
Convenience to access and manage own records real time.
Incentives to share the information to gain advance warning on certain abnormalities in the vitals

Future possible services and advances:
Virtual docs where several specialists will monitor your health virtually
This way if a person develops certain disease he or she can join the specialize network of physicians who will
monitor their conditions virtually, order tests, prescribe medicine, etc. If needed, the person is directed to visit a doc.
That alone will drive health care cost tremendously.
+++

The competition between the HRVs will drive the innovation of the benefits, creating new apps, etc.
It will lead to demand to HRP (health care provider) to participate in this activities.
Before a person goes to a doc or lab he or she will demand participation in HRExchange.
There will be competition among HRVs and HRPs for a patient which will enhance this process.
It will evolve with time. New services, benefits, applications will be created.
IT people will compete in the new tremendous market of doctors, patients, hospitals, labs, etc.
It is similar to large companies like FundTEch, ACI who create MTS application for large players.
Variety of mobile apps creators to enable people's access to own information.

Similarity with banking network evolvement.

At the beginning of banking there were a lot of branches across the country ( Individual Medical Accounts with 
different holders) that had troubles to communicate in order to conduct banking business as we know it today.
The government realized the problem and created the Federal Reserve network. 
After that the banking became dynamic, accessible and more useful.
Since than other private and semi private networks sprang up like CHIPS and SWIFT - the survivors,
BankWire and other - extinct ones.
They allowed US dollar clearing and highly sensitive financial message exchanges around the globe. 
Any institution could become a member as long as it complies with rules and follow the communication protocol.
The medical record exchange will need similar approach. 

It took a while until people embraced online banking. During this process people started to get comfortable with
doing financial transaction over the net. That led to make people in charge of the management of their finances, 
giving instructions to the banks who to pay and how. This part varies from bank to bank.

The EHRS should be approached as such.
Each individual needs an account with EHRS holding company (similar to banks).
A person should be able to give instructions to the record holding company how to move his own records from one participating institution to another.
A record holding companies could charge fees for certain services. The market will regulate those fees
and services. (again similar to the banks)

Doctors, hospitals, laboratories should be mandated to transfer patient's data over to the specified institution
upon patient's request.
When  admitted to the hospital, a person gives authorization to the hospital or doctor to access the records.
Some work is being done to establish Medical Accounts for Individuals. The means of communications between
Individual Medical Account and Providers, Doctors, Laboratories needs to be addressed.
There is a need for secure communication among myriad of Providers, Doctors, Individuals, Laboratories etc. ,
maintaining unique Ids and addresses of each participant, 
garantiing secured delivery of each transaction and many more other aspects of modern exchanges.
It is a process that will be evolving through times. But the ball needs to start rolling and your Company could start
this process.




Participants:
HRVs ( similar to the banks)
Hospitals, large Labs ( similar to the corporate/financial institutions)
3rd party access providers - IT organizations that provide access to small Labs, doc offices, etc.


Current development and standards

According to the ASTM E1384 Standard Guide for Content and Structure of the Electronic Health Record1 the EHR serves all of the functions of the traditional health record with many advantages. 
Usage of E1384 standards and E1633 coded values in the development of the EHR


APPROACH:
It will be a phased approach to this project. 

Describe phase 1

Find SME in :
1. medical records formats
2. EMR exchanges 
3. EHR info keepers /Vault (like Microsoft Health Vault)

Come up with a high level approach to the design
That includes:
1. what kind of request/reply 
2. what needs to be transfered ( what kind of info, data)
3. the format of this info
4. seperate emr on basic blocks of info with permissions and rights
5. determine how to divide the EMR by 
`   a. relevance ( exa: urologist does not need info about alergies, or perhaps very high level note)
    b. permission to access ( exa: foot doc does not need to see scan of the head)
6. map the accessibility diagram, who , why and how gets access to certain blocks.
7. create a basic transportation format ( high level)
8. define certain fields that are needed to transfer pertinant info

Describe phase 2

Find SME in  cloud computing
Find partners among 'banks' to develop a beta version ( perhaps offer an piece of the action)
start designing Data definition layer


Describe Phase 3
Beta rollout with small number of participants ( several docs, patients, hosp, labs, banks)

